all right on to the next
challenge the next impactful
communication idea and that
is the slide make an impact with
direct messages now
i'm gonna throw a photo up on the screen
and i'm wondering maybe you could type
in the chat let me know if this
triggers a little bit of nostalgia for
you the great msn messenger so many of
us used it back in the day some of us
used icq
but msn messenger was a great platform
for going back and forth which was
quicker than email communication
and i went to high school in taber
alberta i was about to go off to college
in calgary
and before i moved i was talking to my
mom and we were talking about how we
would stay in touch and
obviously we would do phone calls but i
was telling my mom you should consider
downloading this
msn messenger and my mother is wary of
technology like any sort of text she's
hesitant to get into but i convinced her
it's just like email but it's a little
bit quicker
and so she reluctantly eventually agreed
to
download msn so i went off to college
and it was several months and my mom
was never on msn messenger but finally
one day
i saw that she logged in and i knew it
was my mom
because she was the only one without a
profile photo
like she just had that little msn icon
and so i sent you a message i said hey
mom
then i waited a while and it said wendy
is typing and then that went away
and then eventually she said hello wait
is that you i said hey mom yep
it's me how's it going
and then my mom said wade how do i know
this is you
and i was thinking to myself well
there's a photo of me there in the
corner and it says
wade is typing this message like i
thought it was pretty clear
but i said mom it's me dot dot dot
so my mom said wait if that's you how
many brothers and sisters do you have
and what are their names
my own mother was giving me a security
question before we could continue this
msn
conversation and a part of me was really
thinking about giving her a fake
answer but then i thought no that's
going to be mean so i said
really a security question mom i have a
brother named wes and a sister named
shauna
and then my mom typed what town did you
grow up in
yeah no it wasn't good enough to ask one
verification question she had to double
that up double level of security and i
said tabor mom it's me
and she said okay we can talk now.
and although this is a funny story and
it pokes fun of my mom and her
weariness when it comes to technology it
actually
points out an interesting challenge with
msn messenger
or text message or whatsapp or facebook
messenger
or any of these forms of communication
even email
and it comes down to these numbers
38 55.38 these numbers represent
how we communicate a message so the 55
represents 55 55 of a message is
communicated
based on body language 38
of a message is based on vocal tone
and only seven percent of the way a
message is communicated from one person
to another
is based on the actual words we say
now this might seem a little bit crazy
but let me explain to you using an
example
hey everyone i am so excited to be here
thank you so much for having me on this
breakout session
that was example one example two
hey everyone thanks so much for having
me
on this uh on this breakout session i
wouldn't want to be anywhere else in the
world than than right here right now
right i just gave two examples using
basically identical phrasing identical
words
but they had two completely different
meanings meaning number one was genuine
i was actually
really excited to be here in the example
number two
you could see that i clearly wasn't even
though i was using the words to indicate
that i was so 93 of communication
is non-verbal yet when we use text
message or emails we're relying on that
seven percent to get across
a full message and think about how many
times you've misinterpreted an email or
you've wondered why is this person mad
at me
and turns out they weren't mad at all
it's just the way they wrote
that particular email one way we're able
to change this is by incorporating video
into our messages so many of you use an
app
a tool called bom bom for video messages
which is a fantastic
tool it gives you all sorts of analytics
it tells you when somebody opens that
email it tells you when they've watched
your video and this is video email and
oftentimes
shooting a video and sending that to
somebody through email is quicker than
actually typing out
the email itself but you don't have to
have a service or a subscription with
bombbomb
to send video messages you can shoot a
video on your phone
and you could send that as an instagram
direct message or through a text message
or even attach it to an email so there
are options
for using video but video messages allow
you
to get across that 93 percent of
communication that is missing
from text only messages so here is the
slide
challenge send at least 10 video direct
messages or
emails over the next month those of you
who already use
bombbomb this isn't your easy out you
have to choose a different challenge but
for those of you who don't
send video messages like this try it out
because i
guarantee you will see great results and
people will appreciate
the fact that you took the time to send
them a video